I always forget. 'Sup. Actually,
I mean within the last few weeks I
couldn't find a good reference for the
topics that I'm going to teach. Uh.
But this weekend I had a chance to watch, uh,
I already watched this movie, but that was.
I mean, I think it was the 4th of
five times that I see this movie.
Uh, it's a great movie by
Roman Polanski again. I mean,
one of the greatest director in cinema.
And it is called night in the water.
1962 it is. It might be
pretty much all for you.
I mean, the young generation.
But I highly suggest you to watch this movie.
It's a brilliant movie in
terms of cinematography,
camera and telling this story.
But the idea that I put
this movie here is that, uh?
We discussed the IPC based on
the pattern of parent and child.
So the parents do a fork and
then try to communicate with the
child and the child is trying to
communicate back with the parent.
We discussed the file,
the pipe and other ways of communication
I mean or providing conversation.
But after that we said that we want
to make a communication between
processes inside different computers.
So then there is no parent or
child paradigm we we have to come
up with a new paradigm with a new
type of communication.
In this movie there is a I mean
kind of controversial relationship
between a stranger.
That looks like a tired,
but it's not the I mean the.
I mean the actual child of this
person's a young stranger and.
Uh,
another adult man and this controversial
gonna be happening in a bolt.
Uh, so this person is a I mean.
A sailor,
I mean kind of professional
sailor and wants to show.
His competence in sailing a boat.
But I mean, this young stranger, uh?
Is a naive person, but it.
I mean he tries to show his own
competence in other fields.
So it's a good movie.
I mean,
I would suggest you to watch this movie,
but the idea is that now we want
to provide a communication between
processes that none of them are
parent or child. So there are not.
There is no kind of hierarchy between them.
Before I start on the I mean communication
between the processor between uh,
I mean two processes.
In a network, uh, area.
So just as a reminder about the lab zero,
I received a lot of requests about,
uh, I mean. Do a re marking or
a new breakdown for the marks.
So if you remember, we said that I
think it was 70% if your program.
Built successfully and run successfully.
So we break it down into three parts,
10 percent, 20%.
And I think it was another 20%.
And another one.
So basically uh,
we tried to come up with a better breakdown
to give you at least some partial mark.
As long as you have the code and
your code is built successfully,
you can have partial marks for Lab 8.
So you will see a new,
I mean a new mark for your lab 08.
or you already saw a new mark.
That's why I mean, uh,
they're releasing Mark for lab night,
which was supposed to be tomorrow.
I mean,
today morning takes a little bit time,
so because of that,
I mean we will release the
lab 9 and lecture 9 soon.
But we already released the keys,
so if you go to the links
for the lab or lecture 9,
you can see the keys for
these two submissions.
We introduced the idea of communication
between processes in a area that
computers are connected with in a network.
And we introduced a communication
platform using the sockets.
So the whole idea is in the
Chapter 16 of the book. And, uh.
This type of communication gonna
be handled by a particular part of
the kernel called network manager.
So there is.
I mean very few or there is no
involvement for the process manager.
Process Manager was responsible
to bootstrap process and provide
communication between the process
inside a single computer.
But network manager is responsible
to provide communication between
multiple computers.
So that's why we have to introduce
network manager part of the
kernel and specifically sockets.
So the environment here is multi
computers or a computer network,
meaning that we have multiple
single processor environments.
Each one is a.
Each one, each computer has
its own processor and memory,
and the processes inside each
one to communicate with another
process inside another computer.
And here is the sketch.
So basically, as long as two different
computers or more than two computers
are connected with a connection.
We call it a physical connection,
would be a wired or wireless connection
as long as they are connected in some way.
We can provide IPC between their processes.
The computer, I mean, uh networks,
is a topic of discourse.
So you may have a lot of I mean questions
about how the communication happens
in an underlying wired connection
or wireless communication and etc.
So in this course you
will discuss in details.
But for this course up for our course,
I just wanted to I introduced or will
introduce some topics that we need
for communication between processes.
We said that we have a lot of protocols.
To provide a communication between
two computers or model 2 computers,
this is called network protocol basically.
Basically it's a collection of languages.
And the order of communication
and the way that the computer the
computers can find each other.
So the language.
The adressing and, uh,
the order of communication.
The type of communication
all these different.
Aspects of communication gonna be handled
in a protocol called Network protocol.
We have different protocols,
but one of the most famous one in nowadays
computer networks is called TCP IP.
And the name actually suggests,
uh, that, uh, it has.
These are the names of part of the protocol.
And, uh,
basically the IP is the address in
protocol and the TCP is only one of the
ways that we can communicate with computers.
But the name as I said,
doesn't describe all aspects of the protocol,
so it's just a mnemonic name.
There are a lot of different,
uh, I mean,
protocols inside this network protocol,
so the name should not mislead you.
There are other ways of communication and
other ways of addressing in this protocol.
But these two are the most common.
sub Protocols.
In this network protocol.
So the TCP IP protocol at the first
layer or as the hardware layer has a
layer called the protocol link layer.
We don't care about this layer.
Basically,
in this layer the way they are physically
connected with a wired connection
or wireless connection is managed.
It can be a Bluetooth infrared or I mean
the Wi-Fi or wired Ethernet networks.
We don't care.
On top of that.
Uh,
the way their computers can find each
other going to be handled in this layer,
inter network or Internet network layer,
and this is called I mean in industry or in.
Uh, I mean out there in the market.
This layer is famous by deal,
I mean it is called by this name.
I Internet Protocol or IP.
So Internet Protocol is not
in network purple,
it's just an address in protocol
as a part of the network protocol.
So again,
in this course we don't care who
gives these IP's to the computers,
why the format is just like this
for numbers separated by dots.
And it says we don't care about this.
The only thing we care is that each
computer has an address called
IP and we can find each computer
by this address and this address
is unique for each computer all
around the computer networks or
all around the world.
If the computers are connected
all around the world.
And one thing is that as you
can see, the computers can have
different types of kernels.
And also can have different
types of architecture.
I mean platform one is AMD,
One is Intel and one is Apple.
So we don't care as long as they have
a unique address by TCP IP protocol
and they are connected in some way.
We can provide communication
between the processes. Of that
and this happens by the network
manager of each character.
And on top of the Adressing
protocol or IP protocol,
we have transport layer in TCP IP protocol.
In this layer we provide what
type of communication we need.
This part, the TCP IP has two protocols.
Offers two main protocols,
one of them is called connectionless.
Or UDP user diagram protocol
in this type of communication?
The idea is not just
sending a message or mail.
Just shooting a message or shooting a mail.
In this communication there
is no order guaranteed.
We discussed that there is no
reliability whether the receiver
receives it or not that your packet,
or your mail may be lost.
Also, if you want to send a
message by this communication,
it should be self contained,
meaning that you shouldn't rely on previous
or next mail received by the sender there.
There should be no assumption about that.
The main advantage of this type of protocol,
I mean communication,
is that it is very simple and light.
As long as you want to send the message,
you just find the address of your receiver
and shoot your message to the receiver.
You don't care about whether
the receiver receives it or not.
What happens with it it?
I mean, it's it is going to
be received sooner or later.
You don't have,
you don't have to do any
assumption about that.
As you can see here some packet
maybe last one.
I mean, if you send a message later.
It may receive sooner.
And if you will send a message sooner,
it may be received later.
Again. It is very light and it is
very simple to do this type of
communication between processes.
We already started this
type of communication.
Uh, but after another type of communication
is called connection oriented that
we are going to discuss it today.
If you have time.
In this type of communication,
it's it is very similar to a phone
call or connection oriented.
In this type of communication,
you have to first make a phone call
or make a call and make sure that
your receiver is alive and then
start communicating the information.
As a result,
because you have a reliable connection first.
Then you gonna have an overdate receive
or sending a message between two parties.
It is a reliable type of communication
because there is somebody on the
other part of the communication.
And one thing is that.
Uh, you can rely on an order.
Basically, when you have a communication,
the order of the messages after
the connection is guaranteed.
So it is very similar to a phone call,
so you first dial the number and
if somebody on the other I mean
end of the call pick up the phone.
The connection is, I mean.
Provided so then as long as
you both talk to each other,
your words gonna be transferred in order,
so there is no I mean, uhm.
Mixture or there is no I mean
unordered way of communication.
So like here,
you first make a connection this and yellow.
I mean bidirectional communication.
And then you will start talking.
And in this communication,
the word's gonna be transferred in order.
But what's the disadvantage?
The disadvantage is that you
have to make a call first,
so you have to provide a
reliable connection first,
and then they start communicating.
So this is an overhead in the UDP,
you just shoot the message.
You don't care whether the
receiver is alive or not,
but in unique in the TCP you have
to first make a connection and make
sure that the receiver is alive.
And then it starts.
So I mean dialing a number and make
a connection is an overhead for TCP.
And then on top of the transport
layer we have the application layer.
Any any any process that wants to.
Communicate.
With another process in another
computer should go through the.
Transport layer.
And then transport.
There goes through the IP layer and
the IP layer goes through the link layer.
So this is visualizing here, so any process?
By the help of the network manager,
part of the kernel goes to the transport,
send the message to transport.
Distinguish what type of communication
is this, whether it's a UDP or TCP.
And then it goes to the
Internet Protocol or layer.
What is the address of the receiver and
then the message is going to be handled
by the wired or wireless network.
And it is sent to the destination and
in the destination it goes backwards,
will fund the hardware.
In the address part,
we check that email is us.
I mean the email is received correctly
in the at the correct address.
And then, uh, in the transport layer we.
Unbox the mass mail and see
what's the content of the message.
And then we the kernel gives
the message to the process.
At the receiver.
But The thing is that for a process
handling all these layers of communication
in the TCP protocol is hard.
As a result,
they cannot provide one single
interface for the processes.
This is called socket,
so this socket provided by the
kernel handles all difficulties of the
layers of the TCP protocol TCP IP protocol.
So process only deals with the
socket and the socket handles all
layers of link IP and transport
layers of the network protocol.
Also, in the receiver,
the process in the receiver only,
I mean deals with the socket.
By the kernel of the receiver and
the sockets at the receiver handles
the layers of the TCP IP protocol.
So we have started an example
about UDP connection.
Uh, in the UDP we have a sender and
receiver in the sender we already started
to write a program to act as a sender.
Meaning that the process inside a computer.
Wanted to send a message to another
process in another computer.
So these are the main tasks that are
going to be programmed by the sender,
program or process.
The first one is the.
Getting the socket.
So basically asking the kernel I need
a socket and then you can say that bind
this socket to an address for the sender.
It is optional.
And we said why because?
The kernel is inside the same
computer as the process.
So the process can leave this task
to the kernel to handle the address
binding the socket to an address.
So it is optional and we said
that the address for the process
includes the IP of the computer.
And there is another part, the port.
The port distinguishes that which
process inside this computer
wants to do the communication.
So it's a unique number,
usually greater than this number we said.
The lower numbers are for,
I mean a super, uh.
I mean powerful processors,
but for normal process the port
number going to be more than that.
But again, if you can pass zero.
And if you passport as zero,
the kernel tries to give you
a random port number for you.
Why the, uh, sender, uh doesn't have
to provide or bind the address?
The thing is that.
The sender wants just to
send a message to a receiver.
In this type of communication,
what is the important part is
the address of the receiver,
not the address of the sender.
So it is very similar just to send a message.
But the important part for the
message is the sender address,
not the sorry.
Receiver address.
The sen-, who sends this message
is not important in this.
In this kind of communication.
But who wants to receive
that message is important,
so that's why you have to
provide the receiver address.
And then shoot your message to the receiver.
So we already wrote the program
and I'm going to show you the
program right now, but we said that.
If you build the program and run it.
Uh, you can have a successful
socket by the kernel.
And then you can bound to an address,
whether you specifically tell
what is the address or the kernel
tries to find an address for you.
And your socket gonna be bound by an
address in this sender computer and
then this is the most important part.
You send the message to a receiver.
And you have to know what is the
address and port of the receiver.
And then you send your message
which is this message.
I mean 10% promotion.
At the sender, you don't care whether
the receiver receives it or no
whether the receiver is alive or not.
So as you can see here,
there is no error here.
It just shoot the message,
but we know that when there is no receiver,
this message gonna be lost or the
network protocol simply drops the
message because there is no receiver.
At the other hand. So.
Just, uh, and just wanted to open the.
This program again.
So as you can see here again,
I mean we provide the type of
protocol and type of communication.
So the domain is a.
Address family, AF is the acronym for
Address Family and we are going to use
the TCP IP protocol so it is on INET.
It is called INET,
so other family is the INET or Internet.
So this is a constant as an integer
number, but I mean if you can.
If you want to see what's the
exact number, you can go to the.
This header file net INET.
Forward slash in the header file.
This is the domain actually says.
What is the network protocol?
And then the type of communication
that you want to provide by the
socket is another constant.
We want to do a connection less,
so this is the constant,
so DGRAM or user data gram.
And then.
The name of protocol here doesn't
mean the network protocol.
It means that what is the default transport
protocol for this type of communication.
So we need a connection less
from the TCP IP protocol.
So this zero means that default transport,
which is the UDP.
And, uh, and then we provide, uh,
we asked the kernel by socket.
We passed what type of communication we
need and what network protocol we need.
So this socket gonna be provided
for TCP IP of type connection
less and the protocol is UDP.
And the return value is just non
negative number, very similar.
It is very similar to the file descriptor.
That's why we call it socket descriptor.
If it is minus one, it's an error,
otherwise it's the socket is given to us.
And then I can hear you see here
that I commented all these lines,
meaning that binding this socket
to a sender address is optional.
If you want to explicitly bind that,
you have to find the IP
address of your current,
the senders current computer
and you have to provide a number.
If you comment that you just provide an
empty variable and pass it to the kernel,
they kernel provide the address for
you and then random port for you.
So these are explicitly or
otherwise just simply create.
I mean an empty variable.
And how do you binding the? Uh.
Socket address with the, uh, uh.
A socket with the address
is a system called bind.
So you called the kernel.
You pass this socket and you pass
the address that you provided,
and basically this system called bounds.
Your socket with the provided address by,
but again this is optional.
But the most important part is that
you want to send a message to who?
So you have to provide a receiver address.
These are the data structures
you have to fill out the I mean
the properties or the fields.
You have to find to who you
want to send the address.
What is the address of the
computer and inside that computer,
what process is responsible
to receive your message.
So you need to know the port
number of the receiver process.
Assuming that somebody tells us what is
the port address of the receiver and
what is the IP address of the process.
So we just put it inside our sender program.
And we fill out this data structure.
The same address in port.
And then we call sendto() send
to him just shooting a message.
You say that I want to send
a message using this socket.
This message.
Which is just as 10% promotion
as you can see,
it's very similar to write
system called in file.
So you just send a message to its
socket descriptor this message.
But who is the receiver you have to
pass the address of the receiver.
And then if the result is not minus one,
meaning that you could successfully send it.
As you can see here, if you run this.
Program.
You will receive no error about.
Whether the messages
received successfully or now,
you see there is no error.
You just can't send message,
cannot be sent to the receiver.
So this is the idea of the
UDP at the center part.
Now we want to discuss.
We want to provide a I mean receiver.
The actual receiver for the messages.
So we are done with the sender part,
but the bad receiver part
we have to do some tasks.
So now we want to discuss
the UDP add receiver.
Any question before I start the
receiver part of the UDP protocol.
Guys wake up. Is there any question?
You see, when there is no question, uh?
OK, Michelle. OK, uh, I need you.
I mean all the other students.
Send me a feedback just to make
sure that everyone has the focus.
So because we are going to,
I mean talk about new topics.
It's good, seems all the
students are listening.
Aaron is asleep in the bath.
OK, so now we want to see what
should we do inside a program at
the receiver in order to accept
the message from the sender.
So these are the steps.
So very similar to the sender.
As we said, the only way to
communicate with the outside world
for the process is using the socket.
So the receiver also should
prove ask for a new socket.
From his own or from her own Colonel.
But this one is important.
The receiver should bind its own
address to the kernel in order to tell
the whole world that I'm listening or
I'm ready to receive message from you.
So it's a must.
For the receiver.
So binding this socket to an address again,
this address includes the IP
of the host computer plus.
The port number for this process.
We call this endpoint you already set,
what's this?
And then.
Wait for receiving a mail or message.
When it receives the message,
the receiver can find who was the sender.
It's optional because the
receiver may not pay attention.
Who was the sender?
The receiver may just want to receive the
received received email and read the mail.
But doesn't care who sent the message.
So again.
The sender is optional.
The address would a sender.
And then read the message
or mail from the sender.
So the first step is creating a socket.
It is exactly the same for a.
I mean the same as in the sender.
So basically if you are going to
communicate in the TCP IP protocol,
you have to include these header files.
And, uh.
For communication outside the computer,
you have to add the socket header
file to do the. Network IPC.
Then you have to tell the kernel what
type of network protocol you want to do.
So TCP IP network protocol.
What type of communication you are
ready to receive a message from?
So connectionless.
And what is the protocol for that?
Uh, you pass zero, meaning that the
kernel decide which is the default.
I mean protocol for connection
less in TCP IP we have UDP.
And then.
You have to simply pass it
to the socket system code.
You tell that I need a TCP IP protocol.
Of type connection less with the protocol
UDP and the kernel provides a number for you.
Non negative number,
very similar to a file descriptor
if it is minus one,
meaning that they cannot cannot
provide a socket for you,
otherwise it is successful
and you're ready to receive a
message or mail from this socket.
Again,
it is very similar to open a file
and start reading from a file.
The next is that.
You have to tell the kernel that
this socket is ready to receive
a message at what address.
So you have to provide an address.
So the address includes the
IP of the computer.
And a port number for your process.
Again.
Here it is a must.
You shouldn't leave it to the kernel
because this is going to be given to
all the senders you have to publish
this address to all the senders.
You will have to tell the world that
I'm ready to receive message from you.
So you have to provide the number,
the port number and the IP to the public.
So as a result you shouldn't
make it a random number.
And then you have to call the bond,
meaning that you want to bind
your socket or with this address.
So again, the IP port gonna be unique
all around the world and in the receiver
it is a must. And the reason is.
Because you have to make you have to
publish this address to the public and
tells the public that I'm ready to
receive mail at this address from you.
Otherwise, if you live with a random number,
you don't know how.
What is the number to tell the public?
One interesting question here is that.
Is it possible for a process
to have multiple IP ports?
So if you have process. Hey.
Is it possible for this process to have IP?
Port. Uh, for instance, another.
IP port.
And another IP port.
Anybody wants to answer this question?
Irony says yes.
Isaac says that I'm gonna say yes.
So if you look at the I mean real world.
You can receive mail by subscribing
multiple addresses to the Canada Post.
We can tell the Canada Post that one
of my address at is at this location.
One of my addresses at this location etc.
And also, if even you are in one location,
you can provide different unit numbers.
You can say that I can receive a message
at this unit number or at this unit number.
So not only you, a process can have.
Different IP. Because the computer
can have a different Ethernet card,
or if different connection I
mean physical connections.
Also, a process can ask multiple
port numbers from the kernel.
But remember for each of them,
a socket can be born only to one of them.
So if a process wants to have different
wants to publish or subscribe to
different endpoints or IP port pairs.
The process should.
Create multiple sockets or reuse
the same sockets and called the
bind system called multiple times.
So the bonds only maps one
socket with one address.
At anytime you can unbind the
address and buy a new address,
or you can have multiple sockets and
bind its socket to another address.
So this is just an advanced topic.
So after bonding the address,
IP port or end port endpoint from the.
To the socket in the receiver.
The next is that the receiver
should wait for receiving a mail
or message from the sender's.
So in the sender we have sent. 2.
In the receiver we have received from.
You receive a message at this socket.
And this is the container of the
message that if you receive a message,
that candle puts the message
inside this buffer.
And then, uh, what is the address?
Who sends the man?
So you can pass Flag Zero and
also this is the length of
the message that is received.
For this flag you can read
about this flag in the book.
It's an advanced, uh, I mean topic,
you can provide different flags,
but for us these are the bare minimum
we receive a message at this socket.
We provide an empty buffer to a.
I mean to have the message
and this is the address of the
sender provided by the kernel.
So. Here is the empty data structure for
containing the address of the sender.
It's empty, empty.
It provides again a buffer of 100 characters.
And then we simply called the receive from.
At the at our socket descriptor.
We passed the buffer. And.
After calling this system called.
Your process or the receiver process
gonna be weight or blocks. Why?
Because you are telling the kernel
that I'm waiting to receive a message.
So the kernel puts you in a blocking state.
Take the processor from you
because you are in a waiting state.
So you wait or you go into sleeping
mode or you go into the blocking mode
until somebody send the message to you.
When this so could receive a message.
The Colonel wakes you up.
Provides the content of the message
at the buffer that you provided
to the kernel and also provide the
address of the sender for you.
And wakes you up.
The result is zero if it is successful,
it is minus one.
If a channel couldn't successfully
read the message of the sender.
So this is very important.
They receive from is a blocking call,
meaning that as long as there
is no message from any Sanders,
you're gonna be blocked.
But the send to in the
sender part is not blocking.
You just shoot the message.
You don't wait,
but in the receiver you wait
for receiving a new car.
As I said, uh, the received from
provide the address of the sender.
You can analyze who sent the message.
You can say that if this sender
address is from this IP and disport,
I'm going to open the message.
Otherwise I can.
I can simply drop the message.
So again, you can analyze the content
content of the address from the sender
and you can accept or open the message
from just the range of senders.
But this is optional.
And then so the content of this.
You can analyze it.
That's why sometimes,
for security purposes,
you can say that I just received
message from this computer
or this and that computer,
not other computers.
And then you can read the message.
So the message is going to be
provided inside the buffer
that you give to the kernel.
So as you can see here,
the pattern of the programming
inside the receiver is usually
inside a while, meaning that.
You always wait for receiving a message.
So when you receive the first message.
You're gonna handle it somewhere here.
And then you go back to the while
loop and wait for another message.
So that's the task of the receiver.
The receiver just waits.
Received a new message,
open it and then read it and then reply
or whatever the receiver wanna do and
then when it's done with this message
it goes to receive a new message.
So it goes to waiting state again so
you do a a forever loop and in this
dope you always wait for new message.
But The thing is here is that.
So this is the pattern receiver never dies.
It always wait for new civil new mail.
However,
what would be a better way to avoid
receiver for wasting time on waiting?
So anybody so basically the question
is this the receiver process
always wait to receive a message?
What if there is no sender?
What if there is no message from outside work
so the receiver process gonna wait forever?
Up until some met Sender sent in message,
so the receiver receives the messages,
handles the message,
and then goes to the the waiting
staff to receive another new message.
So as you can see here,
the receiver process is mostly
in a waiting state.
So what would be the better
way to write a program?
Yes, we have our nation, ISOC basically.
We already said that, uh,
in order to avoid our process
to wait or block on some action.
We can create a child.
We can fork and we ask
the child to wait for us.
So again, it's kind of again child labor.
We had already,
so you don't wait your main process
just to receive a message from senders.
You create a new child and you ask the
child to wait in front of the mailbox.
Up until a new message comes to you,
that child opens the message
and brings you the message and
you analyze the message again.
That choice is responsible just for
waiting for and receiving a new message.
But your main process gonna do other tasks.
So.
The best way here is that you do a fork.
And you give the task of waiting and
receiving a message to the child.
And you give the control of analyzing
the message.
So this is the best pattern you
can do in a receiver part.
I'm not going to give you an example,
but you can mix the idea of forking,
creating a child and the idea of
blocking and receiving a message
and write a program that does the.
Receiving a message.
And analyzing the message in parallel.
So here's the answer.
You can do a fork and give the task
of reading the mail or waiting
for receiving a mail to the child,
and you can continue with
other important tasks.
So just to give you the I mean an example.
So I'm just going to run. The.
Show you the content of the receiver.
So here is the receiver again.
As you can see here, the first part
is exactly the same as Sanders,
or you provide what type of
communication you need and what
is the network protocol you ask.
The kernel is socket.
And then you provide an address.
This time it is mandatory.
You have to tell what is
the IP of your computer,
what is the port that you needed.
And then you bind your socket
with the address that you,
I mean provide here.
And then you provide an empty
data structure to note what
is the address of the sender.
You provide an empty buffer to see
what's the content of the message.
And then you do a a system
called receive from.
You bought you your process gonna be
blocked up until receiving a message.
When you receive a message,
the kennel wakes you up and says
that this is the message and this
is the address of the sender.
You can do. You can analyze it and etc.
Here I just print out the content
of the message.
You can do a lot of other tasks here.
And then when you are done with the task,
you can go back and wait for another message.
One important thing here is this.
Setting the buffering to off,
meaning that you want to set the buffer null,
meaning that you don't want to do any buffer.
I would suggest you to uncomment
this line and run this program at
home and see what's the effect.
So if you want to see the effect immediately,
you have to. I mean, turn off the buffering.
So let's run this program.
So you see here a socket is created for us
successfully and this is the socket number.
And this is the address port that is bind
to the socket you see this address is not.
Similar or looks like in
terms of the appearance,
it doesn't look like the IP address
that we provided inside the program.
Also, we provided the port number 2013,
but again this doesn't look like that.
I already asked you to analyze to see why.
Uh. In terms of appearance.
The IP port that we mentioned
inside the program doesn't look
like the people that we printed out.
Anybody need a research on that?
Do you have any idea why?
Uh, doesn't look like the same.
Yes, actually Ethan and I sucked.
Correct basically the IP and the port.
Just four numbers.
Each number is between zero up until 255.
So when you put those phone numbers into
one location into one long integer,
it becomes like this.
Another thing is that.
A different platforms or save the
bytes of integer numbers in different
orders in the lecture assignment 11,
I explained that in a question.
So I suggest you to read that question.
That two main different ways of
storing the bytes of an integer
big Indian or leader in the end.
So you can read more about that
in the lecture assignment.
As a result,
although we provided the port number 2013,
when it becomes an integer
number in a network protocol,
it becomes this integer.
But for us, this is just an address.
We don't care why this I
mean transformation happens,
but as you can see here,
the receiver blocks here.
It is waiting for receiving a message.
Right now the receiver doesn't have the
processor the processor is allocated
to other processes by the kernel.
So now let's wake up the, uh.
The server. So hear me.
Here is another terminal, uh,
assuming it is from another computer,
but I did the same in the same computer.
This is the terminal to the same
computer, but by assumption
this is from another computer.
So again, let's look at the content.
So the first part is just the
communication TCP IP and outside.
This is for another. Program,
sorry. Uh, send it. Let's
so the TCP IP protocol connection less UDP.
Asking for the socket.
These are in the sender part.
In the center we don't want to
provide binding an address,
so we leave it to the kernel.
But The thing is that we want to
shoot a message to what receiver.
This is the poor of the receiver.
This is the IP of the receiver,
so they should match.
If you don't match the IP and port
in the sender program with the one
that is published by the receiver,
you are going to send a message to others.
And then you send to your mail to
that address by using your socket.
So, and this is the content of
the message you want to send.
So let's.
So we already built that.
Let's do, I mean send a message.
So you see, here the sender sends
the message, but the receiver.
Doesn't receive it,
so what's the problem here?
They have to check whether
we are using the same.
I'm using the set same address or no,
so I'm sending the message to
this address. And to this port.
Let's see what was the.
Address of the receiver.
Oh yeah, you see here the sender.
The receiver is listening or receiving
message at this IP 53 at this point.
But the sender was sending message to
another IP. So I have to fix this.
So the same computer 53 and
the port is 2015 so 2013. Plies
save the sender. Now I.
Run the receiver again.
And now I feel this Sander.
Sander Dot CL Sander. Done standard.
So you see here, when I send a message.
It is received by the sender and
the kernel at the same receiver
wakes up the receiver and sense
that you have a new message and the
receiver prints out the content.
So let's do another one.
So you see it, it's another one.
So I'll send another packet each
run up this and that you see in the
receiver it's going to be printed out.
So one thing here is that
so this is 1 sender.
Is it possible to have another sender?
So I'm going to open a new. Terminal.
So this is a new terminal.
So now we have one sender
here and one sender here.
So I want to send another call the same
a program but from another terminal.
See here and sending from another terminal.
And it is received by the same receiver.
So we have two senders.
One receiver.
Inside the receiver, the receiver
may check whether accept both
of them or reject one of them,
or only accept one or the other one.
So. Any questions? So we have.
Uh.
Any question about this?
About the sender receiver
using UDP uh I mean uh.
Connection or communication?
So it seems there is no question.
OK. So this is just these are the
slides that I just wanted to showcase.
Whatever I showed you right now so.
This is just a summary.
So using the UDP communication at the sender,
you do this socket.
You optionally again, this is optional.
You optionally bind an address.
Your address and code to the socket.
You have to find the address of your
receiver and then you send your
message to the address of the receiver
and the content of your message.
So these are the system calls
and this is the task.
Add the receiver.
The receiver program should create a socket,
must bind the address and port.
I mean the IP port.
The endpoint of itself to the socket.
Wait to receive a message.
By using this system called inside
this system called when it receives
a message it has the address of
the sender and also it has the
content of the message or the mail.
So the receiver can analyze the
address of the sender and decides
whether to open a message or no and
then tries to read the message or
mail and do whatever it is required.
So there are some questions
I already explained this.
Just as he recall.
What's the answer?
Why the sender?
Leave the binding an
address to the Colonel.
What's the logic?
Anybody wants to answer this?
Yeah, that's technical.
Michelle says that the
Colonel knows the address.
So yes, you can leave it to the kernel
because they can't knows the address.
But The thing is that in for the
port number in the sender you live
leave it to the kernel to give
you a random port number as well.
But in the receiver you don't do that.
You explicitly say what is the port number.
So philosophically.
They communication in UDP.
The most important part is.
Who received the message?
So you don't care about
who sends the message.
If you look closely in the real world,
the communication usually sometimes
you only want to receive a message and
you don't care who sends the message.
So this is the I mean the
idea behind the sender.
So in UDP the message and the receiver
of the message is important because
you want to send a message to somebody,
but you don't want to say who
I am and why I want to.
I mean what's the address of me?
And this is the better answer basically.
Usually as I showed you.
There are multiple senders,
but only a single receiver. So.
The receiver should tell the
public what is the address,
so that's why the receiver should
definitely define the IP and the port,
because this reservoir should make it public.
But the sender they just wanted to
use the receiver public address to
send the message so the sender doesn't
want to receive any message or doesn't
want to make it public address.
So as a result,
usually the senders are multiple programs.
And we don't care who are those programs.
But the receiver is important to.
I mean published the address
and all the centers.
Use that address to send a message.
And another thing here is that
as you can see in my example,
all the people, whether it's
in a sender or receiver,
it is hard coded inside the program.
So my question is that
is this a good practice?
Ethan says no, oh OK.
Most of the students had no.
What's the reason?
Why it's not a good practice to hardcode
the IP port inside the program?
Michelle says you cannot run it elsewhere,
correct? Basically.
If you want to run this receiver in
another computer, you have to change
the IP because the computer is changed.
And one thing here is that as you can,
as you saw in my program,
when you change the body, you have to
compile it again and build it again.
Any change to the program you
have to compile it again.
So if you want to change the IP and the
port of the receiver or the sender then
you have to compile that program again.
So that's why it's not a good
practice to hardcode these addresses
inside your program, usually.
You provide these inside another file
and your program read those files.
Or you accept them as an
argument to your program.
So again, this is not a good practice to
hardcode the people inside your program.
You put it in a file or you accept
it as an argument to your program.
Then your program as a receiver or
other sender can act in any other
machines without rebuilding the program.
So again,
I don't put the answer for this slide.
If you are in the class, you know the answer.
But if you are not,
you have to watch the recording.
All this I mean this lecture.
So the next is. TCP IP now that we
know how to do the UDP communication,
we want to see how can we
do the TCP communication.
This is the topic of.
Lab 11 so hopefully all of
you already ready up.
Lab 11 in Lab 11 I explained his steps,
but now I'm going to go into the detail.
Details. We want to do TCP type of
communication in the same protocol,
so we are still in the TCP IP protocol,
but this time we want to do a
communication based on TCP IP.
We are. We don't want to do the UDP
type of communication. Why?
Because we need a reliable.
Or their communication.
We just so it depends on the scenario.
In one scenario you would
just want to shoot a message.
So you go with the UDP,
but in one another scenario you want to.
First, uh,
make a connection.
Because you are going to
send an important message.
Or you want to do a conversation
and in this conversation it matters
that what message goes first
and what message goes second.
So the order matters.
As long as the order is matter,
it's a high priority and you need
a reliable type of communication.
You go with the TCP IP.
What's the overhead?
The overhead is that you have
to first do a connection.
You have to first dial in number.
If somebody on the other
part answers your call,
then you do a communication.
That's the overhead.
So.
Apart from the I mean, uh,
whether it's a reliable
communication or it's just a
connection less communication.
Usually there is a philosophical
debate between the UDP and TCP,
so I think today you are.
We don't have enough time to start the TCP,
but I just wanted to introduce
the philosophical.
Debate between these two
types of communication.
So in the UDP as you said, as you saw,
we have a sender and we have a receiver.
We may have multiple senders.
As you saw in my example,
you can have multiple terminals
sending a message with same receiver.
But in TCP IP we usually refer to
the processes as a client and server.
We usually do not refer to the
processes as a sender and receiver,
although they act as a sender and receiver.
Sender is mean that I'm sending a message.
A receiver means that receiving a message.
So we do the same in TCP IP.
But we refer to the processes
in with another terminology,
we call it client and server.
Why what's the difference?
So again, we are not talking about
the technological differences.
We know that TCP IP is reliable,
ordered and etc and UDP is not reliable.
It is simple,
but it's not reliable or there
doesn't matter and attach.
These are technological differences.
But what I'm talking now here here is
the philosophical differences. So.
In UDP, the idea is that. Any process?
Can initiate a communication.
With another process.
So it's a network of processes
inside different computers and
at anytime one process can send
a message to another process.
You can see we have a network of people
or we have a network of processes.
Anybody can start a communication a
contact P sometime later be contacts.
That's the philosophy.
However, in TCP.
Usually we have a passive process.
This process doesn't initiate
a call or communication.
Never does the call or communication.
That process is just sits and waits
for others to start the communication.
So this process is a passive process.
It only replies if there is
a call from others. However,
this person never calls anybody.
So in TCP IP, that's the main scenario
or main philosophical, I mean idea.
We have a process.
That process never initiated call.
It is the old deal.
Is that just waiting for others
to call that process and then that
process in start to communicate?
This server, which is a passive
process called this server.
And the names actually implies.
What does it mean? Basically,
it says that I'm going to service.
I never try to ask for a service.
I always provide the service.
So that's called the server.
And all the other processes.
They initiate a call.
And they ask for a service.
So when a process or when a person
asks for service in a real world,
we called them clients or customers.
And when a person wants to address the
request or wants to help the clients
or customers, we call them server.
Or the person that provides the service.
So in TCP IP, which is technologically
a connection oriented,
reliable ordered type of communication,
we usually have clients.
Through the call and ask for a service.
And we have this server
that provides the service.
So. Any questions?
No questions.
So you don't have any question
regarding with their friends of
the UDP type of communication
and TCP type of communication.
This is a very important distinction.
So when you want to decide
whether you use TCP or UDP,
not only you have to focus
about technological differences,
but also you have to focus about
the philosophical distinction.
Makes sense I think. OK, so let's start.
Very similar to the UDP.
Let's see what is the sender part of the
TCP type of communication, but again,
we don't call it sender anymore.
We call it client.
So what are these steps in the client
part of the TCP communication?
So TCP add clients?
Again, you have to imagine this
type of confession as a phone call.
As you can see here,
very similar to the UDP,
the client should create a socket.
The client optionally can bind
the address again for client.
It doesn't matter what's the
address of the client.
The most important part for
the client is that what is the
address of the receiver in TCP IP.
The receiver is called this server.
So we usually have one single
server that receives all the calls.
So the client should know
what is this server address.
And then this is the distinction by the UDP.
The client first should make a call.
Should dial a number.
If the server answers,
then the client is start communication.
So these are the two main
differences with the UDP.
So. We create a socket.
At the client part,
again the same exact system called Socket.
For the domain TCP IP protocol,
the type of this time connection
oriented and what's the protocol TCP.
So again, because we are
in the TCP IP protocol,
we use these two header files
and we are using socket.
We have to use this header file.
Because we are going to make a
communication based on the connection
oriented so they only hear differences
that the type of communication.
You see here we use this
soap cat as of type stream.
Instead of socket as a tidy gram so
we don't use this with, use this.
Which is a reliable sequence,
bidirectional connection oriented
streams of communication?
We can leave it zero,
meaning that they cannot decide
was the default transport protocol,
which is TCP.
For stream type of communication.
The rest is the same,
so you are you called the system
called socket TCP IP socket
stream and the protocol is TCP.
If it is successful, non zero,
which is this socket descriptor.
If it is minus one,
it's not possible to provide
this socket for you.
Then binding an address
optional in the client.
But again you can do a system
called bind to bind your socket
with an address and port.
Again, we already said that it's
better to leave it to the Colonel.
And the third part is that
very similar to the UDP.
What's the IP port address of the server?
The end point of this server?
So again, you provide a.
This is the data structure.
You have to fill out the
address and the port.
In order to fill this out,
you can use the another data
structure address Internet address.
This is the IP.
This is the port of the server.
From where I know that.
The server published that in,
for instance,
in the Internet or whatever in some way,
somebody tells me that that's the
IP and the port of this server.
I know that.
And as we said, the IP port
of the process is going to be
unique all around the world,
so you know exactly to what process
all around the world you're talking to.
And then make a call.
That's the system call.
That's a new system called in the TCP.
You have to make a call.
So you do simply dial the number or you
just try to connect to this address.
So again, you don't simply shoot the message,
you have to make it connection first.
So you do connection using your
socket to the server's address.
If it is connected,
0 otherwise minus one.
So you pass the address of the server
you do the system called connect
exactly like it, dialing a number.
You're dialing this address.
If the connection provides to you,
I mean it's provided by to you,
then the return is zero.
You go here and you start communication.
So.
Ah, if you build,
I mean run the program I already up.
I mean I will upload this program client C.
If you build the program
and try to send the message,
I mean try to connect to the server.
You will have a successful
circuit descriptor.
But when you want to make a connection when
you do a call to the Connect system call,
you will receive an error.
Basically it says that I mean you
cannot connect to this server IP port.
And it is very evident that because there
is no server up to receive the call,
so as a result.
You will have no connection.
You cannot do a communication
and go to the next step.
You see the difference in UDP.
You don't care, the server exists or not,
you just shoot the message.
But here you have to do a call
first because your call cannot
be answered by any server.
You receive an error.
So in order to fix.
The client should wait for the server
to be up and ready to take the call.
So next session we discussed how to
write a program for the server part
to be up and ready to take the call.
So that was today's topic up next,
a lecture I'm going to discuss
what is the server part of the TCP
communication and then we can.
Provide the communication between
the client and the server.
So basically this is the topic of lecture 11.
So you already know most
of these topics, but yeah.
I'm ready to take your questions.
No worries, thank you Danielle for coming.
Thank you Vivian. Have a good day. You too.
Thank you Zukh. Thank you Ethan.
I'll be in the office,
so if you have anything related to
the course I ready, I'm ready to
take your question in the office.
Virtual office actually.
So you too have a great day guys.
Take care.